README.md, before:

![.NET Core](https://github.com/StevenRasmussen/EFCore.SqlServer.NodaTime/workflows/.NET%20Core/badge.svg?branch=master)
[![NuGet version (EFCore.SqlServer.NodaTime)](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/SimplerSoftware.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer.NodaTime.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/SimplerSoftware.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer.NodaTime/)

# EFCore.SqlServer.NodaTime

Adds native support to EntityFrameworkCore for SQL Server for the [NodaTime](https://nodatime.org/) types.

The following types are supported:
* Instant
* OffsetDateTime
* LocalDateTime
* LocalDate
* LocalTime
* Duration

## Unit Tests
All types and their methods have unit tests written to verify that the SQL is translated as expected. See individual tests for more information.

## Usage
To use, simply install the NuGet package:
```shell
Install-Package SimplerSoftware.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer.NodaTime
```

Then call the `UseNodaTime()` method as part of your SqlServer configuration during the `UseSqlServer` method call:
```csharp
using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer.NodaTime.Extensions;

options.UseSqlServer("your DB Connection",
                    x => x.UseNodaTime());
```

## DATEADD Support
The SQL `DATEADD` function is supported for the following types:
* Instant (extension methods)
* OffsetDateTime (native and some extension methods)
* LocalDateTime (native and some extension methods)
* LocalDate (native and some extension methods)
* LocalTime (native and some extension methods)
* Duration (native and some extension methods)

**Note**: Please add a using statement in order to use the extension methods:
```csharp
using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer.NodaTime.Extensions;
```

### Supported Methods
* PlusYears
* PlusMonths
* PlusDays
* PlusHours
* PlusMinutes
* PlusSeconds
* PlusMilliseconds

```csharp
using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer.NodaTime.Extensions;

// PlusYears
await this.Db.RaceResult
    .Where(r => r.StartTime.PlusYears(1) >= Instant.FromUtc(2019, 7, 1, 1, 0))
    .ToListAsync();

// Translates to: 
// SELECT [r].[Id], [r].[EndTime], [r].[StartTime], [r].[StartTimeOffset] 
// FROM [RaceResult] AS [r] WHERE DATEADD(year, CAST(1 AS int), [r].[StartTime]) >= '2019-07-01T01:00:00.0000000Z'
```

## DATEPART Support
The SQL `DATEPART` function is supported for the following types:
* Instant (extension methods)
* OffsetDateTime (native and some extension methods)
* LocalDateTime (native and some extension methods)
* LocalDate (native and some extension methods)
* LocalTime (native and some extension methods)
* Duration (native and some extension methods)

**Note**: Please add a using statement in order to use the extension methods:
```csharp
using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer.NodaTime.Extensions;
```

### Supported Parts
* Year
* Quarter
* Month
* DayOfYear
* Day
* Week
* WeekDay
* Hour
* Minute
* Second
* Millisecond
* Microsecond
* Nanosecond
* TzOffset
* IsoWeek

```csharp
using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer.NodaTime.Extensions;

// Compare the 'Year' DatePart
await this.Db.RaceResult
    .Where(r => r.StartTime.Year() == 2019)
    .ToListAsync();

// Translates to: 
// SELECT [r].[Id], [r].[EndTime], [r].[StartTime], [r].[StartTimeOffset] 
// FROM [RaceResult] AS [r] WHERE DATEPART(year, [r].[StartTime]) = 2019
```

## DATEDIFF Support
The SQL `DATEDIFF` function is supported for the following types:
* Instant (extension methods)
* OffsetDateTime (extension methods)
* LocalDateTime (extension methods)
* LocalDate (extension methods)
* LocalTime (extension methods)
* Duration (extension methods)

**Note**: Please add a using statement in order to use the extension methods:
```csharp
using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer.NodaTime.Extensions;
```

### Supported Parts
* Year
* Quarter
* Month
* DayOfYear
* Day
* Week
* WeekDay
* Hour
* Minute
* Second
* Millisecond
* Microsecond
* Nanosecond
* TzOffset
* IsoWeek

```csharp
using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer.NodaTime.Extensions;

// DateDiff based on 'day'
DbFunctions dbFunctions = null;

await this.Db.Race
    .Where(r => dbFunctions.DateDiffDay(r.Date, new LocalDate(2020, 1, 1)) >= 200)
    .ToListAsync();

// Translates to: 
// SELECT [r].[Id], [r].[Date], [r].[ScheduledDuration], [r].[ScheduledStart], [r].[ScheduledStartTime]
// FROM [Race] AS [r]
// WHERE DATEDIFF(DAY, [r].[Date], '2020-01-01') >= 200
```

## DATEDIFF_BIG Support
The SQL `DATEDIFF_BIG` function is supported for the following types:
* Instant (extension methods)
* OffsetDateTime (extension methods)
* LocalDateTime (extension methods)
* LocalTime (extension methods)
* Duration (extension methods)

**Note**: Please add a using statement in order to use the extension methods:
```csharp
using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer.NodaTime.Extensions;
```

### Supported Parts
* Second
* Millisecond
* Microsecond
* Nanosecond

```csharp
using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer.NodaTime.Extensions;

// DateDiffBig based on 'second'
DbFunctions dbFunctions = null;

await this.Db.RaceResult
    .Where(r => dbFunctions.DateDiffBigSecond(r.StartTime, Instant.FromUtc(2019, 7, 1, 0, 0)) >= 100000)
    .ToListAsync();

// Translates to: 
// SELECT [r].[Id], [r].[EndTime], [r].[OffsetFromWinner], [r].[StartTime], [r].[StartTimeOffset]
// FROM [RaceResult] AS [r]
// WHERE DATEDIFF_BIG(SECOND, [r].[StartTime], '2019-07-01T00:00:00.0000000Z') >= CAST(100000 AS bigint)
```

Commit message:

Updated README regarding versioning with EF Core.

README.md, after:

![.NET Core](https://github.com/StevenRasmussen/EFCore.SqlServer.NodaTime/workflows/.NET%20Core/badge.svg?branch=master)
[![NuGet version (EFCore.SqlServer.NodaTime)](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/SimplerSoftware.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer.NodaTime.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/SimplerSoftware.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer.NodaTime/)

# EFCore.SqlServer.NodaTime

Adds native support to EntityFrameworkCore for SQL Server for the [NodaTime](https://nodatime.org/) types.

The following types are supported:
* Instant
* OffsetDateTime
* LocalDateTime
* LocalDate
* LocalTime
* Duration

## Unit Tests
All types and their methods have unit tests written to verify that the SQL is translated as expected. See individual tests for more information.

## Usage
To use, simply install the NuGet package:
```shell
Install-Package SimplerSoftware.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer.NodaTime
```

**Note:** Versioning follows the [major.minor] of EF Core so that it is easy to know which version to install. Ie, if you are using EF Core v5.x then you would install v5.x of this package. Build and revision numbers are not guaranteed to follow the same numbers.

Then call the `UseNodaTime()` method as part of your SqlServer configuration during the `UseSqlServer` method call:
```csharp
using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer.NodaTime.Extensions;

options.UseSqlServer("your DB Connection",
                    x => x.UseNodaTime());
```

## DATEADD Support
The SQL `DATEADD` function is supported for the following types:
* Instant (extension methods)
* OffsetDateTime (native and some extension methods)
* LocalDateTime (native and some extension methods)
* LocalDate (native and some extension methods)
* LocalTime (native and some extension methods)
* Duration (native and some extension methods)

**Note**: Please add a using statement in order to use the extension methods:
```csharp
using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer.NodaTime.Extensions;
```

### Supported Methods
* PlusYears
* PlusMonths
* PlusDays
* PlusHours
* PlusMinutes
* PlusSeconds
* PlusMilliseconds

```csharp
using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer.NodaTime.Extensions;

// PlusYears
await this.Db.RaceResult
    .Where(r => r.StartTime.PlusYears(1) >= Instant.FromUtc(2019, 7, 1, 1, 0))
    .ToListAsync();

// Translates to: 
// SELECT [r].[Id], [r].[EndTime], [r].[StartTime], [r].[StartTimeOffset] 
// FROM [RaceResult] AS [r] WHERE DATEADD(year, CAST(1 AS int), [r].[StartTime]) >= '2019-07-01T01:00:00.0000000Z'
```

## DATEPART Support
The SQL `DATEPART` function is supported for the following types:
* Instant (extension methods)
* OffsetDateTime (native and some extension methods)
* LocalDateTime (native and some extension methods)
* LocalDate (native and some extension methods)
* LocalTime (native and some extension methods)
* Duration (native and some extension methods)

**Note**: Please add a using statement in order to use the extension methods:
```csharp
using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer.NodaTime.Extensions;
```

### Supported Parts
* Year
* Quarter
* Month
* DayOfYear
* Day
* Week
* WeekDay
* Hour
* Minute
* Second
* Millisecond
* Microsecond
* Nanosecond
* TzOffset
* IsoWeek

```csharp
using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer.NodaTime.Extensions;

// Compare the 'Year' DatePart
await this.Db.RaceResult
    .Where(r => r.StartTime.Year() == 2019)
    .ToListAsync();

// Translates to: 
// SELECT [r].[Id], [r].[EndTime], [r].[StartTime], [r].[StartTimeOffset] 
// FROM [RaceResult] AS [r] WHERE DATEPART(year, [r].[StartTime]) = 2019
```

## DATEDIFF Support
The SQL `DATEDIFF` function is supported for the following types:
* Instant (extension methods)
* OffsetDateTime (extension methods)
* LocalDateTime (extension methods)
* LocalDate (extension methods)
* LocalTime (extension methods)
* Duration (extension methods)

**Note**: Please add a using statement in order to use the extension methods:
```csharp
using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer.NodaTime.Extensions;
```

### Supported Parts
* Year
* Quarter
* Month
* DayOfYear
* Day
* Week
* WeekDay
* Hour
* Minute
* Second
* Millisecond
* Microsecond
* Nanosecond
* TzOffset
* IsoWeek

```csharp
using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer.NodaTime.Extensions;

// DateDiff based on 'day'
DbFunctions dbFunctions = null;

await this.Db.Race
    .Where(r => dbFunctions.DateDiffDay(r.Date, new LocalDate(2020, 1, 1)) >= 200)
    .ToListAsync();

// Translates to: 
// SELECT [r].[Id], [r].[Date], [r].[ScheduledDuration], [r].[ScheduledStart], [r].[ScheduledStartTime]
// FROM [Race] AS [r]
// WHERE DATEDIFF(DAY, [r].[Date], '2020-01-01') >= 200
```

## DATEDIFF_BIG Support
The SQL `DATEDIFF_BIG` function is supported for the following types:
* Instant (extension methods)
* OffsetDateTime (extension methods)
* LocalDateTime (extension methods)
* LocalTime (extension methods)
* Duration (extension methods)

**Note**: Please add a using statement in order to use the extension methods:
```csharp
using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer.NodaTime.Extensions;
```

### Supported Parts
* Second
* Millisecond
* Microsecond
* Nanosecond

```csharp
using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer.NodaTime.Extensions;

// DateDiffBig based on 'second'
DbFunctions dbFunctions = null;

await this.Db.RaceResult
    .Where(r => dbFunctions.DateDiffBigSecond(r.StartTime, Instant.FromUtc(2019, 7, 1, 0, 0)) >= 100000)
    .ToListAsync();

// Translates to: 
// SELECT [r].[Id], [r].[EndTime], [r].[OffsetFromWinner], [r].[StartTime], [r].[StartTimeOffset]
// FROM [RaceResult] AS [r]
// WHERE DATEDIFF_BIG(SECOND, [r].[StartTime], '2019-07-01T00:00:00.0000000Z') >= CAST(100000 AS bigint)
```
